# 3.4.11. Time

> RDNA4 ISA — pages 40–40

Field                       Bit Pos   Description
alu_invalid                 0         ALU float invalid
alu_input_denormal          1         ALU float input denormal
alu_float_div0              2         ALU float divide by zero
alu_overflow                3         ALU float overflow
alu_underflow               4         ALU float underflow
alu_inexact                 5         ALU float inexact result
alu_int_div0                6         Integer divide by zero
buffer_oob                  30        Buffer Out Of Bounds indicator.
                                      Set when a buffer (VBUFFER) instruction requests an address that is out of bounds.
                                      Does not cause a trap.
lod_clamped                 31        Texture Level-Of-Detail was clamped. indicates that one or more texture accesses had
                                      their LOD clamped. Does not cause a trap.

3.4.11. Time
There are two methods for measuring time in the shader:
  • "TIME" - measure cycles in shader core clocks (64 bit counter)
  • "REALTIME" - measure time based on a fixed frequency, constantly running clock (typically 100MHz),
    providing a 64bit value.

Shader programs have access to a free-running clock counter in order to measure the duration of portions of a
wave’s execution. This counter is 64-bits and can be read via: "S_GETREG_B32 S0, SHADER_CYCLES_LO" or
_HI, and returns the two halves of the counter value.

Because this is a 64 bit counter but is read in 32-bit halves, it’s possible that the counter can roll over between
reading the two halves. The recommended procedure is:

 1. Read counter high with S_GETREG_B32
 2. Read counter low with S_GETREG_B32
 3. Re-read counter high and compare to the value read the first time. If it is different, repeat both reads.

This counter is not synchronized across different SIMDs and should only be used to measure time-delta within
one wave. Reading the counter is handled through the SALU which has a typical latency of around 8 cycles.

3.4.11.1. Fixed-Frequency Time
For measuring time between different waves or SIMDs, or to reference a clock that does not stop counting
when the chip is idle, use "REALTIME". Real-time is a clock counter that comes from the clock-generator and
runs at a constant speed, regardless of the shader or memory clock speeds. This counter can be read by:

        S_SENDMSG_RTN_B64 S[2:3] REALTIME
        S_WAIT_KMcnt == 0
