# 15.9.1. FLAT

> RDNA3.5 ISA — pages 194–194

15.9. Flat Formats
                                   Flat memory instructions come in three versions:
FLAT
     memory address (per work-item) may be in global memory, scratch (private) memory or shared memory
     (LDS)

GLOBAL
     same as FLAT, but assumes all memory addresses are global memory.

SCRATCH
     same as FLAT, but assumes all memory addresses are scratch (private) memory.

The microcode format is identical for each, and only the value of the SEG (segment) field differs.

15.9.1. FLAT

  Description        FLAT Memory Access

                                                    Table 107. FLAT Fields
Field Name               Bits            Format or Description
OFFSET                   [12:0]          Address offset
                                         Scratch, Global: 13-bit signed byte offset
                                         FLAT: 12-bit unsigned offset (MSB is ignored)
DLC                      [13]            0 = normal, 1 = Device Coherent
GLC                      [14]            0 = normal, 1 = globally coherent (bypass L0 cache) or for atomics, return pre-op
                                         value to VGPR.
SLC                      [15]            System Level Coherent. Used in conjunction with DLC to determine L2 cache
                                         policies.
SEG                      [17:16]         Memory Segment (instruction type): 0 = flat, 1 = scratch, 2 = global.
OP                       [24:18]         Opcode. See tables below for FLAT, SCRATCH and GLOBAL opcodes.
ENCODING                 [31:26]         'b110111
ADDR                     [39:32]         VGPR that holds address or offset. For 64-bit addresses, ADDR has the LSBs and
                                         ADDR+1 has the MSBs. For offset a single VGPR has a 32 bit unsigned offset.
                                         For FLAT_*: specifies an address.
                                         For GLOBAL_* and SCRATCH_* when SADDR is NULL or 0x7f: specifies an address.
                                         For GLOBAL_* and SCRATCH_* when SADDR is not NULL or 0x7f: specifies an
                                         offset.
DATA                     [47:40]         VGPR that supplies data.
SADDR                    [54:48]         Scalar SGPR that provides an address of offset (unsigned). Set this field to NULL or
                                         0x7f to disable use.
                                         Meaning of this field is different for Scratch and Global:
                                         FLAT: Unused
                                         Scratch: use an SGPR for the address instead of a VGPR
                                         Global: use the SGPR to provide a base address and the VGPR provides a 32-bit byte
                                         offset.
