# 3.3.4. LDS

> RDNA3.5 ISA — pages 28–28

Atomics must be aligned to the data size, or triggers a MEMVIOL.

3.3.4. LDS
Waves may be allocated LDS memory, and waves in a work-group all share the same LDS memory allocation. A
wave may have 0 - 64kbyte of LDS space allocated, and it is allocated in blocks of 1024 bytes. All accesses to LDS
are restricted to the space allocated to that wave/work-group.

Internally LDS is composed of two blocks of memory of 64kB each. Each one of these two blocks is affiliated
with one CU or the other: byte addresses 0-65535 with CU0, 65536-131071 with CU1. Allocations of LDS space to
a wave or work-group do not wrap around: the allocation starting address is less than the ending address.

In CU mode, a wave’s entire LDS allocation resides in the same "side" of LDS as the wave is loaded. No access is
allowed to cross over or wrap around to the other side.

In WGP mode, a wave’s LDS allocation may be entirely in either the CU0 or CU1 part of LDS, or it may straddle
the boundary and be partially in each CU. The location of the LDS storage is unrelated to which CU the wave is
on.

Pixel parameters are loaded into the same CU side as the wave resides and do not cross over into the other side
of LDS storage. Pixel shaders are run only in CU mode. Pixel shader may request additional LDS space in addition
to what is required for vertex parameters.

3.3.4.1. LDS/GDS Alignment and Out-of-Range
Any DS_LOAD or DS_STORE of any size can be byte aligned if the alignment mode is set to "unaligned". For all
other alignment modes, LDS forces alignment by zeroing out address least significant bits.

  • 32-bit Atomics must be aligned to a 4-byte address; 64-bit atomics to an 8-byte address, otherwise returns
    MEMVIOL.
  • LDS operations report MEMVIOL if the LDS-address is out of range and
    LDS_CONFIG.ADDR_OUT_OF_RANGE_REPORTING==1
  • MEMVIOL is reported for misaligned LDS accesses when the alignment mode is set to STRICT or
    DWORD_STRICT.

Out Of Range
  • If the LDS-ADDRESS is out of range (addr < 0 or >= LDS_size):
       ◦ Writes out-of-range are discarded.
      ◦ Reads return the value zero. For multi-DWORD reads, if any part of the LDS-address is out of range, the
        entire instruction returns zero.
  • If any source-VGPR is out of range, the value from VGPR0 is used to supply the LDS address or data.
  • If the dest-VGPR is out of range, nullify the instruction (issue with EXEC=0)

"Native" Alignment in LDS & GDS is:

   B8: byte aligned
   B16 or D16: 2 byte aligned
   B32: 4 byte aligned
   B64: 8 byte aligned
