# 3.4.10. Time

> RDNA3.5 ISA — pages 36–36

      Field                   Bit     Description
                              Pos
      EXCP                    8:0     Status bits of which exceptions have occurred. These bits are sticky and
                                      accumulate results until the shader program clears them. These bits are
                                      accumulated regardless of the setting of EXCP_EN. These can be read or
                                      written without shader privilege.

                                                    Bit      Exception
                                                    0        invalid
                                                    1        Input Denormal
                                                    2        Divide by zero
                                                    3        overflow
                                                    4        underflow
                                                    5        inexact
                                                    6        integer divide by zero
                                                    7        address watch
                                                    8        memory violation
      SAVECTX                 10      A bit set by the host command via GRBM (or context-save/restore unit)
                                      indicating that this wave must jump to its trap handler and save its context.
                                      This bit should be cleared by the trap handler using S_SETREG.
      ILLEGAL_INST            11      An illegal instruction has been detected. If a trap handler is present and the
                                      wave is not in the trap handler: jump to the trap handler; Otherwise, send an
                                      interrupt and halt.
      ADDR_WATCH1-3           14:12   Indicates that address watch 1, 2 or 3 have been hit. [12]=addr_watch1.
                                      Addr_watch0 is indicated by the existing bit TRAPSTS.EXCP[7].
      BUFFER_OOB              15      Buffer Out Of Bounds indicator.
                                      Set when a buffer (MUBUF, MTBUF) instruction requests an address that is
                                      out of bounds. Does not cause a trap. Status bit is sticky.
      HOST_TRAP               16      Trap handler has been called to service a host trap. Trap may simultaneously
                                      have been called to handle other traps as well
      WAVE_START              17      Trap handler has been called before the first instruction of a new wave.
      WAVE_END                18      Trap handler has been called after the last instruction of a wave.
      TRAP_AFTER_INST         20      Trap handler has been called due to "trap after instruction" mode

3.4.10. Time
There are two methods for measuring time in the shader:
  • "TIME" - measure cycles in graphics core clocks (20 bit counter)
  • "REALTIME" - measure time based on a fixed frequency, constantly running clock (typically 100MHz),
    providing a 64bit value.

Shader programs have access to a free-running clock counter in order to measure the duration of portions of a
wave’s execution. This cycle counter can be read via: S_GETREG S0, SHADER_CYCLES and returns a 20-bit
cycle counter value. This counter is not synchronized across different SIMDs and should only be used to
measure time-delta within one wave. Reading the counter is handled through the SALU which has a typical
latency of around 8 cycles.

For measuring time between different waves or SIMDs, or to reference a clock that does not stop counting
when the chip is idle, use "REALTIME". Real-time is a clock counter that comes from the clock-generator and
runs at a constant speed, regardless of the shader or memory clock speeds. This counter can be read by:
