# 7.7.2. DPP8

> RDNA3.5 ISA — pages 83–85

    Where "out of range" means the lane offset goes outside a group of 16 lanes (e.g. 0..15, or 16..31).

7.7.2. DPP8
DPP8 allows arbitrary cross-lane swizzling within groups of 8 lanes. There are two forms of DPP8: normal,
which reads zero from lanes whose EXEC mask bit is zero, and DPP8FI, which fetches data from inactive lanes
instead of using the value zero.

DPP8 follows DPP16’s "BC = 1" behavior and assumes all source lanes are in-range.

DPP8 Instruction Fields

Field                Size       Description
SRC                  8          Source 0 (VGPR). Since the VOP1/VOP2 source0 slot was filled with the constant "DPP" or
                                "DPPFI", this field provides the actual source-0 vgpr.
SEL0                 3          Selects which lane to pull data from, within a group of 8 lanes.
SEL1                            SEL0 selects which lane to read from to supply data into lane 0.
SEL2                            SEL1 selects which lane to read from to supply data into lane 1.
SEL3                            etc.
SEL4                            0 = read from lane 0, 1 = read from lane 1, … 7 = read from lane 7.
SEL5                            Lanes 0-7 can pull from any of lanes 0-7; lanes 8-15 can pull from lanes 8-15, etc.
SEL6
SEL7

7.8. VGPR Indexing
The VALU provides a set of instructions that move or swap VGPRs where the source, dest or both are indexed
by a value in the M0 register. Indices are unsigned.

                                         Table 32. VGPR Indexing Instructions
Instruction                  Index                      Function
V_MOVRELD_B32                M0[31:0]                   Move with relative destination:
                                                        VGPR[dst + M0[31:0]] = VGPR[src]
V_MOVRELS_B32                                           Move with relative source:
                                                        VGPR[dst] = VGPR[src + M0[31:0]]
V_MOVRELSD_B32                                          Move with relative source and destination:
                                                        VGPR[dst + M0[31:0]] = VGPR[src + M0[31:0]]
V_MOVRELSD_2_B32             Src: M0[9:0]               Move with relative source and destination, each different:
                             Dst: M0[25:16]             VGPR[dst + M0[25:16]] = VGPR[src + M0[9:0]]
V_SWAPREL_B32                                           Swap two VGPRs, each relative to a separate index:
                                                        tmp = VGPR[src + M0[9:0]]
                                                        VGPR[src + M0[9:0]] = VGPR[dst + M0[25:16]]
                                                        VGPR[dst + M0[25:16]] = tmp

7.9. Wave Matrix Multiply Accumulate (WMMA)
Wave Matrix Multiply-Accumulate (WMMA) instructions provide acceleration for common matrix arithmetic
operations. The instructions are encoded using the VOP3P encoding.

These perform: A * B + C ⇒ D, where A, B, C and D are matrices.

   Additional information can be found on the GPUOpen blog: https://gpuopen.com/learn/
   wmma_on_rdna3/

   The AMD Matrix Instruction Calculator (https://github.com/RadeonOpenCompute/
   amd_matrix_instruction_calculator) contains a helper tool that allows developers to view detailed
   information about the WMMA instructions in the RDNA architecture. It allows users to query instruction-
   level information such as computational throughput and register usage. It also allows users to generate
   mappings between matrix element and hardware registers for each matrix instruction and their
   modifiers.

WMMA does not generate any ALU exceptions.

These are all encoded using VOP3P. The NEG[1:0] field is repurposed for the "IU" integer types to indicate
whether the inputs are signed or not (0=unsigned, 1=signed). For WMMA_*UI8/UI4, NEG[1:0] indicates whether
SRC0 and 1 are signed or unsigned, and NEG[2] and NEG_HI[2:0] must be zero. For WMMA*_F16/BF16, NEG[1:0] is
applied on SRC1 and SRC0’s low 16bit. NEG_HI[1:0] is applied on SRC1 and SRC0’s high 16bit. {NEG_HI[2],
NEG[2]} is applied on SRC2, act as {ABS, NEG}. The destination is signed for the integer types. Neg[0] applies to
the A-matrix, and Neg[1] to the B-matrix. Neg[2] must be set to zero.

                                          Table 33. WMMA Instructions
              Instruction                        Matrix A    Matrix B     Matrix C    Result Matrix
              V_WMMA_F32_16X16X16_F16            16x16 F16   16x16 F16    16x16 F32   16x16 F32
              V_WMMA_F32_16X16X16_BF16           16x16 BF16 16x16 BF16 16x16 F32      16x16 F32
              V_WMMA_F16_16X16X16_F16            16x16 F16   16x16 F16    16x16 F16   16x16 F16
              V_WMMA_BF16_16X16X16_BF16          16x16 BF16 16x16 BF16 16x16 BF16 16x16 BF16
              V_WMMA_I32_16X16X16_IU8            16x16 IU8   16x16 IU8    16x16 I32   16x16 I32
              V_WMMA_I32_16X16X16_IU4            16x16 IU4   16x16 IU4    16x16 I32   16x16 I32

"IU4" and "IU8" mean that the operand is either signed or unsigned (4 or 8 bits) as indicate by the NEG bits.

These instructions work over multiple cycles to compute the result matrix and internally use the DOT
instructions. In order to achieve this performance, the user must arrange the data such that:
  • A and B matrices: lanes 0-15 data are replicated into lanes 16-31 (for wave64: also into lanes 32-47 and 48-
    63).

WMMA supports only round-to-nearest-even rounding for float types.

Inline constants: can only be used for C-matrix. For F16 and BF16, the inline value is replicated into both low
and high halves of the DWORD.

Simplified example of matrix multiplication on 4x4 matrices:

This diagram below shows the A, B, C and D matrices in the traditional point of view: one row is a horizontal
strip of entries, and columns are a vertical strip. This is the linear algebra view, regardless of layout in memory
or in VGPRs. The matrix operation is defined as: D = A * B + C. Each entry in D is the result of multiplication of
a row from A with a column from B, added to the C value for that entry.

This diagram below shows how the matrices are laid out in VGPRs when M = N = K = 16. Note that the A matrix
is column-major while the others are in row-major order.
